Hello.
Good afternoon. Good afternoon. Good, good afternoon.
So how are things going on?
Going fine, sir. Fine. 19. Participant join till now.
So this is, today's the last topic of the course
that I'm going to cover today.
Next one week is going to be,
I will be giving you some brief, uh, overview about how
reinforcement learning is used in a large language model.
Okay? And, uh, so your course is going
to end the next Saturday,
or if you want, uh, we can have it on everywhere next day
because Saturday is a packed schedule for you, right?
If you want,
we can have it on 11th and then 18th.
Yes sir. Yeah,
Yeah, that'd be much helpful
because a lot of our, uh,
friends were actually working today,
so they may not be attending Saturday's class.
Okay, fine. So we'll have it on this Wednesday
and then coming under 11
and 18th, this is going to be application per se.
Okay? So the last topic is,
or one of the most, uh,
important algorithm in policy gradient.
Let me share you the screen.
Actually, I do not give you much of the, uh,
storyline of about all the things
that is happening over here in, in,
uh, LLM domain.
Okay? So you go to this place, uh,
white floating control.
The way for the beginners to learn about this is PPO.
I will go to them.
There is a here, this is for the beginners level,
okay?
I will cover from here.
In addition, I have A PPT, which will be covering about
have A PPT, but it is only, um,
how it is derived.
Let me just check out whether I have it
already downloaded or not.
Plus not.
So, yeah, so here I have it
E PT for this also,
let me go from my PPT itself.
Okay? So we already know
the objective of the policy gradient is to maximize,
to maximize the probability of
the action along the traject trajectory.
So tau Tao is the trajectory, okay?
This Tao is the trajectory.
Our tau is the reward for the trajectory. Okay?
So we are the objective.
This is you theater, you, it is the objective function
and gradient is the this delta ized by gradient
of the objective function.
Okay? So the objective function is only this much.
That is some over this multiplication probability
for tau multiplied by au.
Okay? And when you take the gradient,
then we have a log trick that we come up for this.
That is we have to maximize this gradient
of the log probability of probability of probability
of tau, okay?
Multiplied by art tau. So this is the objective
for all the classes of policy gradient
we have learned till now.
First one is called reinforcement algorithm,
or is called value vanilla policy gradient.
Second one is called advantage estimation. Normal.
Just advantage estimation in which we don't
calculate this art.
We just take this reward for the whole reactive minus
of your value function, which is basically advantage,
basically difference between Q function and value function.
Okay? And then we have a generalized advantage
as these three things we have learned for last one
or two weeks, okay?
In which this term remains the same.
That is a gradient of log probability.
This term remains the same.
Only this reward function is changing
with this is the reward for the whole trajectory.
This is called basic reinforcement algorithm.
Second one was called actor critic,
which was basically we are having a actor
and a critic network by which we are actor is choosing the
policy to be chosen.
That is this one. And critic is finding out
what is the value for this particular action
that you are taking over the trajectory.
Okay? So this is changing all the time.
This reward how we are calculating,
if we are considering act method,
that is the normal act critique that is called
you just modify this with advantage function.
That is called difference
between Q function and value function.
In the case of, uh, in the case
of today's topic
for it is called proximal policy optimization.
There we are having a major deviation from the last two
topics that we have done.
We are going to modify here itself, okay?
So that is one point for you to remember.
We're not only modifying this
like in case of advantage estimation.
Then last class witness that I have shown you
what is called generalized advantage estimation.
In case of generalized advantage estimation, we are applying
it is basically TD in learning on this value function.
Okay? Here today we are going
to modify something in here.
It is the main contribution of proximal policy optimization.
Okay? Overall, what is the objective
for every policy gradient is basically this
increase the probability of path
which has a positive reward, okay?
And decrease the probability
of the path which has a negative reward.
So here is one more important line that is
of all the policy gradient mechanism, we try
to change the probability of the experience path
and it does not change the path itself.
It means that you are trying to increase
or decrease the probability
for the actions along the path, okay?
It does not try to change the path itself.
So if any action has resulted to positive reward,
you will increase the probability.
If any action is resulting to negative reward,
it'll decrease, decrease the priority of the path, priority
of the action, not the path priority
of the action along the path.
Okay? So these are the decomposition method.
Basically first class I had told you
what is the meaning of this.
So we have got into this phase that is gradient
of log priority of the action given the state
and T stands for all the time stepss along the particular
trajectory, okay?
So for every action that you're taking along the trajectory,
you are increasing the log probability for the action.
If the action has resulted a positive reward,
if the action has result a negative reward,
then you decrease the probability for that.
That is the main objective
for every policy gradient type mechanism.
Okay? Now what we are going to learn about these are
for actor critic method.
As I told you for team.
Now, what I learned is modification on the reward part
modification the reward part.
So it is basically difference between your reward
that you are obtaining for the whole trajectory, minus
of your estimation for every state
that you are transitioning into one by one.
But every state you have some estimation.
This value is coming from your critic model.
This value is coming from critic model, okay?
And this part that is action given particular state.
This value is coming from your actor model.
So last two classes we have seen actor critic model. Okay?
Now coming up, what is policy gradient mechanism.
So policy gradient mechanism,
IT is taking a major deviation from all
other previous algorithm.
They're going to make changes here in the probability
of action given ace here.
So for that, there are some little mathematical things
that involved that is called,
one is called import sampling, okay?
So important sampling is a very, very important, uh,
method in the statistical influence course.
That is the major problem is see, forget about this
denominator part.
Don't, don't consider, don't look at it right now.
What is our objective basically is expected
sum of discounted reward to be maximized.
That is normal objective for any reinforcement learning
poly in case of policy gradient,
what we're maximizing is expectation of this quantity.
That is probability of tau multiplied by au.
This denominator is not there, okay?
So probably of tau given theta is basically the policy
that you are learning.
So the policy that you are learning, you have feed
that policy into your neural network
and then you are trying to learn what is the return
that you're getting for the policy.
And if you change your one particular state action,
you get a another kind of reward.
Now you are going to do a comparison between them.
Now, whenever we're going to go comparison,
you have already seen in case of uh, deep Q learning,
if you remember, we are maintaining two neural network.
One neural network is used first storing your
real output y
and another neural network
by which you're learning your policy.
You can make changes of the weight of the neural network,
of the policy network, not on the target network.
Okay? So if you remember that DQ learning,
we are using two Q network, the two network,
two neural network for maintain, for assessing your
Q function here in the case of policy gradient, so far
in active critic network, we had two newer network
that is fine, but in that case, actor critic,
we are maintaining actor is modeling your policy.
That is this part and critic is modeling your value
for the particular action
or value for living a particular state that is
already learned by the critic method.
Critic is the expert model, okay?
So it knows it's called teacher model,
and the policy network is basically student student network.
Okay? So can we utilize that kind of concept here?
So that is why this denominator is coming.
So denominator is basically,
there is one more mathematical reason.
The reason is we, if you don't have this denominator,
we are trying to maximize this new matter.
What that is. Probative tau multiplied by tau given theta,
theta is the weight of the neural
network multiplied by art al.
Now this probative tau given theta,
this is a function of your theta,
and if you're changing that theta itself,
that is you're updating the neural network's weight,
you'll not be able to find out the optimal weight
for which these quantity is going to be maximized.
So for that, what they do is they will do the
optimization by considering that you are freezing the
weight of your network to the previous policies value,
that is why they're considering a ratio
between the current policy and the previous policy.
So that is three. Is that just one step before?
What was the policy? So you freeze that network
and you just change one very little parameter in your
ne network weight that will be corresponding
to some particular state action.
It'll not change all the state
and all the action only for few particular state,
and it'll make a little bit of change.
That will become a new policy.
So the, and the ratio between them is taken up
and this ratio multiplied by the reward that is the quantity
that they're trying to maximize.
This is all because there is a necessity.
The necessity, you cannot do the simultaneous update
and then ex uh, maximize your expectation.
You cannot do that. That is why they're decoupling it,
decoupling by the help of taking of the one step
before what was the policy.
Okay? Now, in that doing that, if you take,
this is your objective function,
then if you apply a gradient for the current policy of the,
then this gradient is going
to be applicable on the new matter part,
not on the denominator part.
Okay? Then, uh, expectation of gradient
of this thing, this is what they're trying
to maximize.
Okay? So that is why the objective function
for this is going to be written like this,
that ratio of the current policy
and the previous policy multiplied by the reward, okay?
And this is called a surrogate loss function.
Now, surrogate means basically this is the new loss
function, which will ensure that if you do the optimization
of the surrogate loss function, you will eventually
modifying the original, original optimization.
That is the new matter part. This part alone, okay?
That is don't, you don't have any denominator part. Okay?
So that is as a background of this, now I'll, I'll go back
to your doc.
Uh, you can go over here this
hugging face, okay?
So here I'll go to your,
the ratio function.
Here, I'll go this ratio function is what, uh, we are trying
to, okay, so in case of policy gradient,
this was an objective all the time.
Lock probability of action given
s multiplied by the advantage.
Now this expectation means expectation is happening over
what happening over the year.
Individual time step for a particular projectile.
For a particular projectile, you are going to have small T
starting from zero to capital T.
That means capital T number
of transition you can make within a particular projectile.
Okay? So this expectation is happening over
one projectile, okay?
Now
directly they're showing this, uh,
clipped ob clipped objective function,
surrogate objective function.
They're showing it directly.
So before that, I'm just trying
to look at whether they have written down
what is called this ratio or not.
Yeah. So this ratio, this ratio is basically
probability of action.
Given ace divided by prob of action given is
with respect to the old policy, the old means one step
before, what was your theater?
Ethnicity was the old policy, okay?
And this is what is the same thing over here.
This one, okay?
Now, as I told you, these are all approximation method.
We are not going to be able to do this optimization.
That prob of tau given theta multiplied by our Tao,
an expectation over theta
and that expectation is going to be maximized.
Okay? That is not going to possible.
So we go for the surrogate function.
That is we are taking ratio between current policy
and the old policy, but that is your objective function.
Now, whenever we need a gradient, we need
to take apply gradient over here, right?
That is gradient for this.
Now, for this gradient is also going to be
for the approximate that here they're saying you are
not going to find out the gradient easily.
So forget about gradient.
This is all our approximation matter, okay?
So when you're forgetting about gradient, that means
you can take the help of the, uh, auto grad function
of your PyTorch
or all kind of, uh, all kind of deep learning framework.
Like tens floor also has their own
auto differentiation method.
You can take help of them.
So you take this value on this value,
if you have multiple sample collection, then you can
some over all of those samples divide by total number
of sample, you get a average value on that average value,
you can apply just auto differentiation
function from chain flow, anything,
you'll get a differential quantity for this.
That is gradient of this, okay?
Now, they have observed that that gradient is going to be
noisy gradient.
Noisy gradient. Why?
Because, uh, this function is not a expl.
As I told you, this function is not a
explicit function of theater.
Exp explicit function means
like if I tell you PI theater is basically,
let's say it is action given a so action
that is 80 multiplied by theta, one square,
then plus 80 multiplied by theta two square
and all theta one, theta two is basically your neural
network weight according to the layers.
Okay? If I can write a explicit formula
that becomes explicit function,
but if I cannot write any explicit formula,
like if you can think of scientific,
scientific is explicit formula, okay?
But if you take a neural network, you have a output value,
you have a input sample that you're providing,
so your output value is some combination of your weight
and your input sample, that is not a explicit formula
because that is going to be taking a lot of algebra
dot product, algebra product,
something like that is going to happen.
If you have a dense network, it is not going to be easy
to find out explicit relation between output and input.
So in those cases, if you apply the gradient operator,
you are going to get a noisy value.
Now, to get rid of that noisy value, you are going
to do a clipping operation.
The clipping means if the gradient you set a threshold,
threshold is silent, if silent value will be between zero
and one, it should not be zero, it should not be one
between between zero and one.
Okay? Now, if this, uh, this value,
if this valid ratio value is going to be greater than one,
then you slice it on the top side
that you should not go beyond one plus of asylum.
As I told Fal value is less than one between you and one.
So your top slicing upper cap value is
one plus fal.
Okay? And if your gradient value is going down
by uh, below, uh, it, if it is going below
of below, I think, uh, zero in that case,
what you do is you reduce it
by one minus silent.
Okay? So that is what clipping operation
and this clipping is given over here.
We just take a look over here.
I will explain it again, phone is coming to me.
Just attend the call one minute. Okay.
Hello? Hello, hello
Sir, can you please recap?
Uh, can you please recap?
Uh, the, yeah, I'll tell, I'll tell.
So here is the clip function, okay?
I will tell you the meaning of this.
Look at if this ratio, this ratio is basically
between your current policy and the old policy.
That is, this is the ratio, current policy and old policy.
Your, your current policy might, uh, the update
that you're making is on the current policy, okay?
And you one step before you had a old policy,
so the current policy, uh,
for which you are updating if those values are going beyond
a particular limit, beyond your old policy,
so the ratio is going to be quite higher,
it is will be bigger than two three.
Also in that case we are going to do a
slicing from the top side.
Okay? That means your objection is jumping too much
that you have gone beyond your well behaved region.
So you do a top slicing.
So you should not go beyond one plus of upsider.
That is this value. This value, okay? That is top slicing.
It may happen that your new policy
is quite lesser, quite lesser than your old policy.
In that case, your value function at which this ratio
function will go down farther than uh,
I mean it'll be between zero fraction.
It is between zero and one. Okay?
It's a fraction 'cause the old policy value was quite higher
and this current policy value is quite less
in between zero and one.
So in that case, what they're telling is you should not go
below a particular value that is one minus of fal,
as I told Fal value is between Jira and one.
So one minus fal will be, let's say if you take
Fal value two 0.2, okay?
In that case, this clipping function tells you
that you should not go down below 0.8.
That ratio ratio should not go down between below that 0.8
and the ratio should not go above 1.2 heavy.
So it'll be lying between 1.2 and 0.8. Okay?
That is the objective of cliff function. Okay?
So that is the clip function.
Then you are applying a minimum
operator on two values.
One is the clipped objective value.
This is the clipped objective value,
and this is the original value.
Original value is if the ratio between
old pol current policy
and old policy is lying between 0.8
and 1.2, if the ratio is between 0.8
and 1.2, in that case you take this particular value itself,
that is ratio multiplied by advantage value, okay?
If that is not the case, if it is below then 0.8,
then you are going to slice it to only 0.8 in that list.
This clip will be activated. This clip will be activated.
Okay? Since you're doing a minimization
between two quantity one is this original quantity,
other one is the clip of objective.
In between them, whoever is minimum you are going
to take them, okay?
That is a minimum operator
and on that value, you're applying this expectation.
Expectation means this value is going
to getting com computed for every time state
for a particular trajectory.
Okay? Then for a particular trajectory you average them out.
So again, I'm telling this proximal policy optimization.
The name itself suggests that proximity
to a particular policy, you know,
what is the policy proximity proximal policy.
This is the, this algorithm name is proximal
policy optimization.
Okay? Proximal means you are going near to something
to whom you are going to near you are going to
not too much far away from your old policy.
Old policy is something that you have freezed
because the policy that you have got it one step before.
Now the next step you are updating the policy
of the old policy itself.
You get a new policy that is called PI theater condition
to the fact that that a pi theta should not be deviating too
large amount from the old policy.
So that is the main reason behind the clip objective. Okay?
Now there was a, uh,
before proximal policy optimization was proposed,
there was another algorithm which was named as
T-R-P-O-T-R-P-O means trust region prox, uh,
policy optimization.
Okay? So TRPO was a um, precursor of this algorithm
for TRPO, there was a necessity that
this clipped objective function was not proposed.
What there, this is going
to be a computationally very efficient
because the ratio is going above too much high of one.
You clip it by one plus excelon.
If it is going down, um, near to zero,
in that case you from the lower side, you clip it up
that it should not fall below one man.
This is very L algebra cooperation.
There is no mathematics involved in it. Okay?
Prior to this PP algorithm,
there was another algorithm called TPO that was full
of mathematics that they are telling that you have
to measure the divergence between these two quantity
with respect to a scale divergence.
Scale divergence means you might have already learned this
term called, you might have heard this term scale divergence
last semester we used, we read ah,
so kil divergence stands for deviation
between two probability distribution function.
In that case you need to, the formula
for kle divergence is quite complicated.
If I have two functions like PFX
and QFX, these are the two distribution function.
Then the kale divergencies basically integration of QX
multiplied by log of log
of PX divided by qx.
And this is going to be taken expectation
for all possible values of X
and that is a very exhaustive mechanism.
Killens, the property of kill divergencies is the output
of K is always positive.
It'll never become negative if the PX value is less
than QX or the PX value is greater than QX for all
of the cases because you are going to do averaging out
for all the, you are going to expectation are going
to do averaging out killed evidence will never go
to less than zero,
but it'll be quite positive quantity in
that case there is the jump that they're making
for the update is going to be quite high.
So this, uh, people behind this TRPO, they came up
with PP algorithm.
They said that we are not going to do a tedious job
for finding kle divergence.
Let us have a algebra method of straightforward.
Just take a scissor, clip it from the upside,
clip it from the lower side, that's it.
We're not going to do too much of mathematical operation.
So it reduce the computational core, uh, com burden
via lot amount.
Okay? So that was the clipped objective, okay?
Now this 80, it is your advantage that is going
to be remaining same for all the previous algorithm.
Also, like you have learned generalized advantage
estimation, which is a general version
of TD in learning itself.
Before that we have learned just a normal return.
We're not going to do generalized t learning,
just normal return by a one step transition,
one step difference between the current
state and the previous state.
You can apply that, you will not get too much of difference.
So the, it is not changing only what change happen is,
is there, as I told you here, uh,
for your generalized advantage, we have changed here.
We have not changed this part probably of tau given the
only in the case of proximal policy optimization, TRPO.
So PPO and TRP,
they have been proposed from open AI company, okay?
The people who have invented chat GPT in 2022,
it was proposed this PPU algorithm
and uh, in 2024, January, first January, China came up
with uh, deep seek.
Deep seek is much more intelligent mechanism.
They're using G-R-P-O-G-R-P-O.
Full form is group relative policy optimization.
I will not cover GRPO here,
but I'll just give you a brief difference between in terms
of English language, not in terms of any mathematics
because GRP mathematics is much difficult than open
AI is P algorithm.
So look at for all of the cases what we do, we give a,
uh, state action pair, which is called trajectory,
and at the end of finishing trajectory,
we provide the reward to the whole trajectory.
Okay? Now we do while doing that
one application of like this for large language model is
whenever we are generating the sentence.
So you write something in chat, GPT or uh,
or Germany, you write a question, it'll give you answer
with a paragraph of the information
that he knows about this question.
Okay? So for this to happen,
there are two things.
Running in backbone in the LLM.
One is called next word prediction.
So whenever you are writing a word,
LLM can predict the next word that you're going
to type in, okay?
That is called next word prediction.
So next word prediction is happening
by using just a transformer model.
A very, very deep architecture transformer model.
For that you would not require any reinforcement learning,
but whenever you are predicting a sentence,
suppose you write a question, your LLM is going
to answer your whole paragraph.
So basically completing a whole sentence or set of sentence.
So in that case to produce a sentence, this LLM,
what they do is suppose they give you the answer,
they will ask you whether you
are satisfied with the answer or not.
That is a reward actually that it is asking from.
They will use it for further for training of their model.
Suppose you are not satisfied with the answer, okay?
Then what will happen then you are going to give a very,
very less point to them.
They will take it for learning their data set, I mean
for preparing the data set, not learning
for preparing the dataset that
they will mark the whole sentence who will less reward
to probably a negative reward also, so that
whenever the next time a similar question asked to the LLM,
what they'll do is they will update their reward scheme.
That if they are offering you that particular answer, again,
that may not be getting a high reward,
but they will provide it to you so that they are making a
less rewarded output to you.
They're offering a less rewarded output to you, not
that they want to satisfy you, but
because they want to learn their model, they want
to increase their learning of a new answer.
Okay? So this scoring you are providing at the end
of completion of a sentence, okay?
So that, that is how chat GP was working
and it got popularized from 2022 to 2024.
But this, uh, deep seek model, what they did is they have
grouped up the response that they're generating
that is called this group relative policy optimization.
They're not going to give you the score based on your
one answer generated by the LLM.
They will give you a group of
uh, responses, okay?
For each, uh, of the response, which is inside a group.
They have separate, separate reward assigned to them
and they will have a robust optimization,
much robust than PPO that they will combine.
I mean the formation of this structure, okay?
You are going over inside a particular episode
for all the word that you have predicted.
Instead of that, they will go over all the response,
each response having a different weight of the reward.
Okay? So that is the main use case level,
and that brought a huge change paradigm shift in AI domain.
The deep model later it has given rise
to reasoning model.
Uh, reasoning model means, see, you are writing a question.
Your chat gpt is giving you the answer for that, uh, chat.
GPT is not forced to think about.
Uh, think about beyond the relation between
various words typed by you
and the various words produced by the Chad g Bt not
beyond that, okay?
The reasoning means suppose it is
beyond the long-term dependency reasoning means suppose
you have given a mathematical question to be solved
before 2024.
This, uh, deep seek came up.
Chad g PT and all, they were not made, they're not designed
to solve any mathematical question,
but deep seek is the model which has given rise
to solving mathematical question itself.
Mathematical question.
It was not like, like give it two sums
or multiple sums, not that we can give a question of
you give a question of finding a integration
of a function.
You give a integration of synex divided by coex.
You provide a range of of hell of x
deeps seek has done that.
So that deeps seek model based on G two that has given rise
to reasoning model,
not the model came up from open ai.
Okay? Now, if you look at, uh,
mathematical problem can be solved by
reinforcement learning based LLM model.
Now your chat GT version four, it does
that reasoning model for mathematical solving.
Gemini. Recently Google's this one, which he announced that,
uh, I TJ's mock testing can be done in Google, Gemini
all happened because deep seek had solved it much earlier
than Google
and OpenAI another company from China, his name is
Q-N-Q-W-E-N-Q-N has
been bought by Alibaba.
Alibaba, yeah.
So yeah, Jack ma, Jack Ma is the owner of AWA company.
They have bought this QN model. Okay?
So that is a brief, uh, thing I told you about this.
So that is what is your
proximal policy, Optim action.
Now time is square 45.
I have a program for this, which I have made it
after spending quite a lot amount of time.
I'll show you that thing also.
That one one note.
Um, so when you say that, uh, for LLM
and the, uh, policy approximation
or proximate, uh, how it actually does,
because it, the LM have a huge parameters
or huge knowledge that it has.
Um, so how would the prediction actually happening?
I mean, what sort of calculation it is done in
GPU to give that prediction?
Okay, so there are two levels of, uh,
prediction they make.
First is by using normal transformer model,
they will predict your next word itself by
learning from a huge like LAMA
and all, if you run lamis open source model, it'll help you
to find out the next, uh,
it is called predicting the next word itself.
Okay? So that is a normal transformer training.
Second phase is called training with reinforcement learning.
So in that case, they're going to produce a whole sentence,
not the next word itself.
So, uh, repeatedly, if you call for generating next word,
you will get a whole sentence whether the
sentence is good or bad.
For that, they need a human intervention.
So human intervention is modeled
by something called reward modeling.
Okay? So once this generat a sentence,
then they will feed their sentence to a, this kind
of reinforcement learning algorithm called
actor critic algorithm.
In that they have already stored a critic model.
This critic model is already pre learned model.
Who knows that? What is the reward should I provide
to this particular sentence that has been generated
by ulama open lama?
Okay, so they will provide a reward.
Once they get the reward.
Now they will send that to the actor model.
It is called actor critic. Then actor model.
What it'll learn, it'll learn about probative
of action given, is what is the state of a, state of A is
whatever words has been seen by the actor model.
So it is generating word
by word generating a whole sentence word by word.
So let's say you are having 15 words in a sentence just
to consider that there's 15 words in a sentence.
First word it has generated, okay?
The state is set two is one second word.
It is generated by looking at the first word.
Now it is moving into state of S two,
and the action is the action is basically, what is the word
that it is predicting on the state of S one.
It is choosing one word out of all possible word
that it has a prediction.
Okay? Then it has gone to next step called S two.
How good is the S two given that it has seen only s one,
that evaluation is going to happen by the critic model.
So it is basically this actor critic model,
which is a reinforcement learning model,
which is taking into account
or state statements, whatever word you have seen
so far, okay?
Action is basically what is the possible words
that you can predict at a particular state out
of all those possible word, you can pick anyone.
Once you have picked up anyone,
you are now moving into a new state
that is st plus one state at that state, you go
and ask your actor critic model, how good is my
living into this particular state called st plus one?
It'll give you a reward for that.
You take that reward, that will become your rt.
At time t you have got this reward. Okay?
Then you, once you have moved into st plus one,
you also have a prediction at that particular state.
Prediction means, let's say you have your vocabulary length
is 50,000 words in your
vocabulary of your English dictionary.
Out of 50,000 word, you have a probability assigned
to each one of the 50,000 word.
You are choosing the highest probability assigned
by the soft max operator.
You pick that word, which is becoming your action
as a result of action.
You go to next word, at every action you are evaluating
how good is your state and action.
So this will like that you are going to generate one right?
Time means you have generated one sentence at the end of,
uh, normally this reward model
that has verification from the critic is not going
to happen for every word.
It's going to happen after completion of your sentence.
Because at every word, if you do, you are going to
make your model to be inefficient.
On top of that, you are going
to make a high variance of your estimation.
High variance, because every time,
every time every word you generate, you get a reward.
By that reward. If you're updating your actor model again
and again, you are going to make your actor model
to be much more noisy model.
Instead of that, you have a delayed reward.
You hold accumulation, you don't wait for reward. Right?
Now, sir, generate the whole sentence.
Then you go for a critic, say, how good is my sentence?
Okay? You, you give you, uh, reward model.
Then using that reward, you
update your weight parameters, this update is going
to happen by your back prop.
Okay? So when you are doing the back prop,
you are only updating your reinforcement learning model.
You are not going to update your LAMA models,
which has generated your next token or next one, okay?
You don't go and update them. So they, they are freed.
Once the next token prediction is done
by the lama, they're free.
They're not going to be changing.
So you understood now two phase of training for this LL
Yeah, and also sir, uh, how can we see this actor critic?
I understand that, um, it's been there,
but I've been trying multiple lms like
from Microsoft five three.
I have tried the lm I have tried,
I have tried from Google lava models
and all, everything gives a different results,
and the quality of the results also varies.
So how do I, uh, uh, know
that which one could be needed for my project or,
or my, my experiment?
Uh, because everyone, every,
every language model have its own, uh, limitations,
its own biases, yeah, by, yes.
So that is, uh, that is why I'm telling
they are building the LLM model, not only to satisfy you,
not only to satisfy you if you are not satisfied every time
they'll ask whether you are satisfied, yes or no.
That value they will take into account to say
to their reward model that whatever, uh,
output generated by my LLM, my means I am Microsoft.
Just considered I am LLM, you are asking me a question.
If you're not satisfied, I will take into account
to my reward model that the sentence generated
by my model is not a good enough sentence.
So I'll give you some kind of reward adjustment.
So next time, similar question asked by any user,
what I will do is I will, uh, not produce that output
as a first two or three response given by the LLM.
Okay? So this, this is called, there are two models
that they're learning on the backbone of LLM.
One model is called reward model.
By reward model training is completed.
They will update the critics value function,
critic value function means if this is the sentence,
you give this much reward.
Okay? So this critic is now updating
after reward model training is done.
Now, when a user going
and asking him a question, he's generating a sentence.
This LLM model generating a sentence,
the sentence while they are generating, they'll generate
by using the actor model.
Then the actor model will send
that whole sentence generation to the critic.
Model critic will give a a reward for
that particular generation.
And if the reward is not above some threshold,
which threshold is set by the LMS orchestrator model?
Orchestrator model is basically the final authority.
Who takes that?
Whether I should be, I should be allowing this sentence
to be displayed to the user or not.
Okay? The orchestrator might decide that, okay, if it is
below threshold, he will send it back to again
critique model that okay, this has not passed the test.
This is not positive test.
You force the actor to generate again.
So critic will now have an understanding that the value
that has been predicted by me was not good enough.
I will keep it in my memory. Then the actor is forced
to generate one more sentence.
That sentence again, it'll go to critic.
Model critic will evaluate, give you value,
that value again, verified by orchestrator.
If it is passing the threshold, it'll be display to you.
Overall, this is a continuous learning.
It is depending on the user who is posing the question
and what kind of knowledge the user is having,
and the moment he is giving some response, like yes
or no, that knowledge is helping the LMS
critique model reward model
to further update their knowledge base.
I will give you one example.
Yesterday I was writing a blog about something, uh,
something on the, his historical background.
Now our own country's independent struggle.
So there was a, there was a commission.
You have heard about this problem of this, uh,
recent UGC regulation, right?
Nationwide protest, uh, launched
by the general cast people and all.
So what happened was this regard me
to find out the historical background of all these
cost-based discrimination by constitution, by government.
Government is an instrument of the Constitution, okay?
They have to maintain everything as per the constitution
by just, just reading about all those things from
historical background.
So then I found out that these are all practice made
legitimate in our constitution itself.
So then I further went down to history that since when
all our, all of our matters are written in constitution is
actually copy pasted from British government of India Act.
Okay? 1935, that act was written.
All of our constitutions,
everything is a plagiarized document.
Just change up some word here and there.
Overall, it is not a document written
by Indian people at all.
Okay? So there I was searching out,
there was a commission called Simon Commission,
which came into India.
It was not applied, just proposed by British government.
In 1928, they proposed it.
So it was, uh,
because of which la la large, he
protested against it
and in Laur he was beaten up by the police
and within few days, seven days he died
because of which actually Hain came up for.
Um, that is the reason why Hain became a revolutionary.
But then I went into the thing of Simon commission.
Then I asked the question to Germany, JGBT,
I think two or three L lms top notch LMI asked the question
that which commission came to India
after Simon commission
because Simon commission had been withheld
because La la Lara kind of leader
who was the top most leader in Congress at that time,
he died because of police beating up.
So after that which commission came up, I asked a question,
they could not give any answer.
So that was a basically direct question.
So they may not have the knowledge base.
Then I have given some kind of, uh, hint about that matter
that in 1928 Simon commission came,
what was its main intention and why it was withheld.
So actually this, all this commission that had came up
to India, all of them had a underlying design that how to
further divide on the basis of cast, on the basis
of religion like that.
So that was my intention to know
how much knowledge they have all the elemental.
So they don't have any knowledge about it.
But the moment I ask that question, I given some hint,
I am sure that today if I ask some question,
they'll give me some tentative answer so
that every day they are keep on updating
every knowledge base.
But if you go to Google, if you ask some commission some
information, you will get some commissions, PDF what is
where written in that document and you'll get some p.
But if you ask a question that what came after this?
What was the solution proposed by the BTS to uh,
alleviate the problems generated by Simon commission
and all that, they will not be able to answer.
So all of this that you are seeing in India proposed
by government of India
or some kind of legislation coming up to in terms
of social bill, I'm not talking about any kind of
bill related to GST
and all in terms of controlling the society.
All of these document,
they have a origin into British documents.
But anyhow, this is very, very good domain that
how to train a LLM.
Actually I am trying to make one LLM based on all this thing
like this kind of historical matters,
which, uh, which I know, which may be known
by some more persons who are into that domain.
Hmm. All those debates that you hear in the national TV
and all, they're very noisy debate, too much
of sound they create, you cannot hear any debate
for more than two, three minutes, especially if you go
to any kind of prime media channels, right?
Versus the knowledge is getting lost.
So how can I make some kind of sequence of events
and you can query, you will get something.
What happened before that, what it led to like that,
that is my motivation.
So I have given you this example for that.
Now it is one o'clock I thought of showing it
to you about this PPO implementation.
I'll show it to on uh, your witness day class. Okay?
Okay. So next witness day class will be there after that.
Again, another witness day, right?
So two class I required, I will show you one, uh,
practical example of your LLM, uh, how
you can get a feel of using.
So there is a open RLHF.
There is a, I will show you here itself.
You go to Google, those of you working to LLM domain,
you don't want to do training by yourself.
You want to just modify the you models code
and all there is open RLHF.
Okay? Read the docs.
This is the second link you will get in.
You'll get into this. This is the open RLHF.
Here. You can go
to this training guide.
Those of you on training is going to be difficult for you.
You can readily available model, you can run them.
So this is going to help you
to suppose you are using LAMA model
to generate your next token.
Then if you want to build one of your LLM
to generate the whole sentence, the sentence will be near
to the human level expectation sentence generation.
So for that you can use this o open RLH.
You can go to agent-based paradigm here. Execution.
See here, whatever I have told you, like two phases
of execution is documented over here.
After you do this two phase,
like the last phase R AL algorithm, that is where you have
to use either PPO either reinforce G-R-P-O-G-R PS made
by DIPE and all, okay?
This is basically called consistency
in your token trajectory.
I have not used open RLHF so far.
What I am trying to do is I'm trying
to make the Python programs by myself so that I don't need
to wait for, because there are a lot of neur networks.
Wait, too much of weight in my laptop. I cannot run it.
I require at least 20 GB GPU.
So I'm running very small model to have a very
specific knowledge base, information like this,
historical backgrounds and all.
You can go into this and you can explore,
you can download the pre pretend model of RLHF, attach it
to your LAMA model.
Then you can generate tokens from lama, send it
to the RL open RLHF, okay?
It'll generate the sentence.
You can give a score from your side.
I have not done that experiment.
I'm trying to build up my own.
This, uh, very, very small model of this, uh,
lean force algorithm alone to make a sentence.
Those were who are working in industrial scale
operation, okay?
Uh, you don't have the freedom to add these open RLHF.
Also, you write a question, they will give you the answer.
But those answers, suppose you give those answers some
question pair to your open RLHF.
You'll be able to get some kind of model
of your reward model of actor
and critic model weight parameters.
But those weight parameters, you cannot attach it
to your models that you're using, like Gemini
or Open Eyes things and all.
Because they are not open model.
You cannot interact with them.
You can interact with only the end product of them,
but you, you'll not be able to feed back to their model.
So we can quit today's class then.
Yes, sir. Thank you. Yes, sir. Okay. Yeah.
Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir.
Thank you, sir. Okay, thank you, sir. Yeah, you can quit.
Yeah. Thank you, sir. Mm, thank you.